Police: Swiss tourist gang-raped in India
From Sumnima Udas, CNN
updated 10:20 PM EDT, Sat March 16, 2013
An Indian security official looks over the site that a Swiss woman was raped the night before near Gwalior on March 16, 2013.
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
- NEW: Swiss embassy calls for swift investigation
- Police say a tourist was gang-raped in central India
- The victim and her husband were camping
- 20 people have been detained for questioning
(CNN) -- Police are investigating the gang-rape of a tourist in central India, the latest black eye for the country over violence against women.
A Swiss couple was camping near a forest in India's Datia district when a group of men beat the husband and raped his wife, the district's deputy superintendent of police, R.S. Prajapati, told CNN. There were between five and seven attackers, he said.
The couple arrived in Mumbai on February 3 and were on a cycling tour across the country, said D.K. Arya, deputy inspector general of police.
The attackers stole a laptop, 10,000 rupees (US $185) and a mobile phone, he said. The victims went to police and the woman was hospitalized and later released.
Twenty people have been detained for questioning, Arya said.
Fighting rape in India's old-boys club
CNN rides along with Delhi police
Lakshmi: Problem goes beyond gang rape
The couple is staying at a guesthouse in the Datia district while the investigation unfolds, he said.
The Swiss ambassador to India, Linus von Castelmur, has spoken with the couple and offered any support they will need.
"Their health and treatment is the priority of the moment," the ambassador said in a statement. "The embassy has also been in touch with the local authorities and has requested for swift investigation and for justice to be done."
The attack comes at a time in India when there are calls for stricter laws on sexual assault and changes in cultural attitudes toward women.
In December a 23-year-old woman was gang-raped on a New Dehli bus, spurring protests in India, where most women have stories of sexual harassment and abuse on public transportation or on the streets, according to the Indian Council on Global Relations. That woman later died in a Singapore hospital.
A panel appointed by India's home affairs minister as a result of the case criticized Indian attitudes toward sexual assault and called for policy changes, including creating an offense of gang-rape punishable by at least 20 years in prison, making it a crime for police to fail to investigate sexual assault complaints and making it illegal to consider character or previous sexual experience of the victim at a criminal trial.
Turkish police identify suspect in U.S. tourist's death
Slaying highlights violence at Mexican tourist hotspot
CNN's Per Nyberg contributed to this report.
Part of complete coverage on
updated 6:17 PM EDT, Tue May 21, 2013
The image of the Gaza boy and his father under a hail of Israeli bullets became a powerful symbol. Now Israel insists its military is not to blame.
updated 2:31 PM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
The tornado that ripped through Oklahoma saw teachers rise to be surrogate parents, protectors and heroes, according to LZ Granderson.
updated 1:14 PM EDT, Tue May 21, 2013
Did you know that hurricanes can also produce tornadoes? Read facts you didn't know about destructive twisters.
updated 9:01 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
The petite frame of 19-year-old Zoe Smith should fool nobody -- she's a weightlifting warrior who has fought stereotypes and broken a British record.
updated 12:41 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe calls women "Japan's most underutilized resource," yet traditions have been hard to overcome.
updated 10:55 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
According to the United Nations' mission in Iraq, 712 Iraqis were violently killed in April 2013. This is both normal and extraordinary.
updated 7:21 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
Myanmar's Muslims have generally coexisted with the Buddhist majority. But ethnic fault lines are exposed as it emerges from military rule.
updated 8:09 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
Actresses Carey Mulligan, Isla Fisher and Elizabeth Debicki tell CNN who gave them inspiration for their characters.
updated 1:21 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
A quarter century after his death, American pop artist Andy Warhol has popped up in China again after his first and only trip to the country in 1982.
updated 10:39 AM EDT, Wed May 22, 2013
Revolutionary "bionic exoskeletons," like the metal suit worn by comic book hero Tony Stark, may be closer than you think.
updated 3:51 PM EDT, Tue May 21, 2013
Photos: From Sharon Stone to Matt Damon, browse through the best from the Cannes red carpet this year.
Damnit we have work to do ... but not before we have another go at this annoyingly difficult web-based game.