Ariel Sharon, former Israeli Prime Minister, dead at 85By Alan Duke, CNNUpdated 9:16 PM ET, Sat January 11, 2014Just WatchedAriel Sharon has diedreplayMore Videos ...Ariel Sharon has died 07:15Story highlightsAriel Sharon was 85He had been in a coma for eight yearsHis leadership was marked with victories and controversiesAriel Sharon, whose half century as a military and political leader in Israel was marked with victories and controversies, died Saturday after eight years in a coma, Israeli Army Radio reported. Sharon was 85.Sharon died at Sheba Medical Center in the Tel Aviv suburb of Tel Hashomer.The Israeli statesman was a national war hero to many Israelis for his leadership, both in uniform or as a civilian, during every Israeli war. Israelis mourn loss of former leaderMany in the Arab world called Sharon "the Butcher of Beirut" after he oversaw Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon while serving as defense minister.He was a major figure in many defining events in the Middle East for decades, including his decision to turn over Gaza and parts of the West Bank to Palestinian control.Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, a decorated warrior who also took steps for peace, died Saturday, January 11, after eight years in a coma. Sharon was 85. The former general had been hospitalized since suffering a stroke in January 2006. Here, he meets with Israeli journalists in Tel Aviv a month before the stroke.Hide Caption 1 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon, born on a farm outside of Tel Aviv, began working with the Haganah, a militant group advocating for Israel's independence, after graduating from high school in 1945. He's shown as a young commander in the Alexandroni Brigade of the fledgling Israeli army in 1948. Hide Caption 2 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Ariel Sharon addresses troops of Unit 101 before their attack on Khan Yunis in what was formerly known as the Gaza Strip on August 30, 1955. Sharon had established the elite commando group two years before. The officer-turned-politician had a career marked with victories and controversies.Hide Caption 3 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – By February 1966, when this photo was taken, Sharon was an Israeli military hero. Sharon rose through the ranks of the Israel Defense Forces and was a major general during 1967's Six-Day War, which ended with Israel notably, if controversially, expanding its territory.Hide Caption 4 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – In June 1967, Sharon led his tank battalion to a crushing victory over the Egyptians in the Sinai during the Six-Day War. Here, he witnesses an aerial attack.Hide Caption 5 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Former Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion is briefed in 1971 by Sharon in a trench near the Suez Canal in the Sinai.Hide Caption 6 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Defense Minister Moshe Dayan (left) visits with a bandaged Sharon during the Yom Kippur War in October 1973 on the western bank of the Suez Canal in Egypt. Sharon said his greatest military success came during that war. He surrounded Egypt's Third Army and, defying orders, led 200 tanks and 5,000 men over the Suez Canal, a turning point.Hide Caption 7 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon transitioned into government, including stints as military adviser, agriculture minister and defense minister. Here, he and Prime Minister Menachem Begin attend a Knesset meeting in June 1977.Hide Caption 8 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon with his son, Gilad, and wife, Lily, during a stop in Egypt in 1979.Hide Caption 9 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – An official Israeli inquiry found Sharon indirectly responsible for the September 1982 killings of as many as 2,000 Palestinians at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps outside of Beirut, Lebanon. The report -- which led to Sharon's prompt resignation -- determined the then-defense minister did nothing to stop Christian militiamen allied with Israel from entering the camps. Here, demonstrators are seen near Prime Minister Menachem Begin's home in Jerusalem, calling for the resignations of Begin and Sharon.Hide Caption 10 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon, in combat helmet and flak jacket, leads his troops toward a meeting with Christian forces in East Beirut in June 1982. Israel had invaded southern Lebanon in retaliation for an assassination attempt linked to the group Abu Nidal.Hide Caption 11 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon, no longer in the Israeli military, stands at the future site of a settlement in Gaza in February 1990. Hide Caption 12 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Serving as foreign minister, Ariel Sharon talks with U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright during the October 1998 Middle East peace summit in Maryland.Hide Caption 13 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon made a political comeback in the 1990s, eventually becoming leader of the Likud party in 2000. In February 2001, the prime minister-elect touches the ancient stones of the Western Wall as he prays at Judaism's holiest site in Jerusalem. He took office the following month.Hide Caption 14 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – The prime minister, at a March 2002 media briefing in Jerusalem, announces a widespread army operation against what he called Palestinian terrorism. He spoke out against Yasser Arafat, then a key Palestinian leader. Sharon said that Israel considered Arafat an enemy and that he would be completely isolated "at this stage.'' Hide Caption 15 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – In June 2003, Sharon, right, met with Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas, left, and U.S. President George W. Bush to discuss a Middle East "road map" for peace. After the meeting, Sharon expressed his "strong support" for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Hide Caption 16 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Sharon sits alone as he waits for other Knesset members to arrive for a vote on March 28, 2005. Sharon pushed for Israel's historic 2005 withdrawal from 25 settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, which was turned over to Palestinian rule for the first time in 38 years.Hide Caption 17 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Immediately after he fell ill in early 2006, Sharon's prime minister power was transferred to Vice Premier Ehud Olmert. Sharon is shown only weeks before his devastating stroke.Hide Caption 18 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – The politician pays a visit to his Negev Desert farm in early 2006.Hide Caption 19 of 20Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman 20 photosAriel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesman – Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert looks toward the empty chair of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon as a note is passed to him during a special meeting of the cabinet in April 2006. Israel's Cabinet declared Sharon permanently incapacitated, a decision marking the official end of his five-year tenure. Sharon suffered his stroke in January 2006 and was in a coma. Hide Caption 20 of 20EXPAND GALLERYJust WatchedAriel Sharon legacy linked to militaryreplayMore Videos ...Ariel Sharon legacy linked to military 03:33PLAY VIDEOJust WatchedSharon and Arafat: Enemies to the endreplayMore Videos ...Sharon and Arafat: Enemies to the end 03:16PLAY VIDEOThroughout, he was called "The Bulldozer," a fearless leader who got things done.Ariel Sharon: Five things to knowThe reaction in his own right-wing Likud Party to his order to the military to drag some Israeli settlers from their homes in Gaza led Sharon in November 2005 to form the political party Kadima, Hebrew for "Forward." He was in his fifth year as prime minister when he suffered a massive stroke in January 2006, which left him comatose.Ehud Olmert, who became interim prime minister after Sharon's stroke, assumed the role of prime minister after leading the Kadima Party to an election victory in March 2006.Sharon's career was closely tied to Israel's relationship with Lebanon. A life on front lines of war and politicsDuring the Lebanon war in 1982, Sharon, a former army general then serving as Israeli defense minister, was held indirectly responsible by an Israeli inquiry in 1983 for the massacre of hundreds of Palestinians at the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps. He was forced to resign.Sharon, who lived on a ranch in the Negev Desert, became prime minister on March 7, 2001.He was the man who encouraged Israelis to establish settlements on occupied Palestinian land, but he also was the leader who pushed for Israel's historic 2005 withdrawal from 25 settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, which was turned over to Palestinian rule for the first time in 38 years.Just WatchedAriel Sharon: The PoliticianreplayMore Videos ...Ariel Sharon: The Politician 03:53PLAY VIDEOJust WatchedAriel Sharon: The WarriorreplayMore Videos ...Ariel Sharon: The Warrior 02:40PLAY VIDEOAriel Sharon: Fast FactsSharon formed the centrist Kadima in an effort to build political support for his controversial plan to turn over Gaza and parts of the West Bank to Palestinian control.In grappling with the decades-long conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, Sharon said in 2001, "I can talk and look in the eyes of the citizens of Israel and convince them to make painful compromises."As waves of suicide bombings by militants rocked Israel, Sharon sent tanks and troops into Palestinian towns, ordering assassinations of Palestinian militant leaders.Sharon ordered construction of the barrier through the West Bank and confined then-Palestinian Leader Yasser Arafat, whom he called "a terrorist," to his compound in Ramallah, accusing him of encouraging attacks on Israel.This veteran of all of Israel's wars was a national hero to many.In 1953, after a wave of terrorist attacks from Jordan, Sharon the military leader led the infamous Unit 101 on a raid into the border town of Kibya, blowing up 45 houses and killing 69 Arab villagers. Sharon said he thought the houses were empty.In June 1967, as a general, Sharon led his tank battalion to a crushing victory over the Egyptians in the Sinai during the Six Day War.But what he considered his greatest military success came in 1973 during the Yom Kippur War. He surrounded Egypt's Third Army and, defying orders, led 200 tanks and 5,000 men over the Suez Canal, a turning point in the war.As defense minister, Sharon was the architect of Israel's invasion of Lebanon, an occupation meant to stop the Palestine Liberation Organization from using Lebanon as a base for attacks on Israel. The attack was disastrous.After the Sabra and Shatila massacre, he allowed Israeli families to settle in occupied Palestinian land, the same land Palestinians claimed as a future state. As a result of the inquiry, however, Sharon was forced to stand down and was banned from ever being defense minister again."He felt betrayed by his government," said his adviser, Ranaan Gissin.Sharon made a political comeback in the 1990s, eventually becoming leader of his party in 2000. That year, he faced more trouble when he visited the holiest site for Jews, the Temple Mount in Jerusalem -- known to Muslims as Haram al Sharif, "The Noble Sanctuary." The stop sparked violent protests. The incident prompted the second Intifada -- the Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule -- that began in September of that year.Throughout his career, both in the military and in politics, Sharon was the man Israelis turned to when they thought they had no other choice. Either leading from the front or calling the shots as an elected leader, he was always the soldier. Even in his later years out of uniform, his military demeanor was just below the surface. He never delivered on his promise of peace and security.Sharon was born on a farm outside Tel Aviv. The son of Russian immigrants, he always remembered a lesson from his father as he ascended to the highest office in Israel."When my father saw that I was tired, he would stop for a minute and say, 'Look how much we have done already,'" he once explained.<div id="ad_rect_atf_01" class="ad-ad_rect_atf_01"></div>Remembering Ariel SharonAriel Sharon, former Israeli Prime Minister, diesAriel Sharon, whose half century as a military and political leader was marked with victories and controversies, was 85.Ariel Sharon: Hero or butcher? Five things to knowAriel Sharon made a name for himself as a military and political leader who put Israel's security above all else. Ariel Sharon: A life on front lines of war and politicsFor better or for worse, at almost every major event in the history of modern Israel, Ariel Sharon was there.Ariel Sharon's brilliant moves and disastrous mistakesIf you can define Ariel Sharon's legacy in one line, citing just one of his dramatic actions, then you have missed most of the man.Ariel Sharon: Israeli soldier, statesmanTake a look at his life in photos.Sharon and Arafat: Enemies to the endCNN looks at the personal animosity between Yasser Arafat and Ariel Sharon that impacted so many people. Ariel Sharon: The warriorCNN looks at the military career of Ariel Sharon seen by many as an Israeli war hero, but by others as a war criminal.Ariel Sharon: The politicianCNN looks at the political career and legacy of Ariel Sharon, whose half century as a leader was marked with controversy.Ariel Sharon leaves 'mixed legacy'Ariel Sharon died Saturday after eight years in a coma, Israeli Army Radio reported. Sharon was 85.Ariel Sharon: Warrior who sought peaceAriel Sharon had a pivotal, enduring effect on Israel, writes former Israeli ambassador to the United States, Michael Oren.More from middleeastAnger boils in Jordan over ISIS killing of pilot: What comes next?Syrian woman: I had to marry an ISIS police chief to save my father's lifeWho is Saudi Arabia's new King Salman?Powered by Livefyre
Ariel Sharon, former Israeli Prime Minister, diesAriel Sharon, whose half century as a military and political leader was marked with victories and controversies, was 85.
Ariel Sharon: Hero or butcher? Five things to knowAriel Sharon made a name for himself as a military and political leader who put Israel's security above all else.
Ariel Sharon: A life on front lines of war and politicsFor better or for worse, at almost every major event in the history of modern Israel, Ariel Sharon was there.
Ariel Sharon's brilliant moves and disastrous mistakesIf you can define Ariel Sharon's legacy in one line, citing just one of his dramatic actions, then you have missed most of the man.
Sharon and Arafat: Enemies to the endCNN looks at the personal animosity between Yasser Arafat and Ariel Sharon that impacted so many people.
Ariel Sharon: The warriorCNN looks at the military career of Ariel Sharon seen by many as an Israeli war hero, but by others as a war criminal.
Ariel Sharon: The politicianCNN looks at the political career and legacy of Ariel Sharon, whose half century as a leader was marked with controversy.
Ariel Sharon leaves 'mixed legacy'Ariel Sharon died Saturday after eight years in a coma, Israeli Army Radio reported. Sharon was 85.
Ariel Sharon: Warrior who sought peaceAriel Sharon had a pivotal, enduring effect on Israel, writes former Israeli ambassador to the United States, Michael Oren.