5 things to know about black culture nowBy Justin Simien, Special to CNN Updated 6:23 PM ET, Tue February 25, 2014We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Michael B. Jordan is no longer an unknown, after his breakthrough performance in "Fruitvale Station," and reports that he will star in the next "Fantastic Four." But take a look at the up-and-comers you may not know, who are affecting black culture now. Hide Caption 1 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Alexis C. Wilkinson will become the first black female president of the Harvard Lampoon at Harvard University. "When I ran, I actually said, 'Having a black woman president either means that we will be unsuable or the most-sued organization of all time. So let's find out!' " she told New York Magazine. The Lampoon is a humor magazine created in 1876, and boasts former writers like Conan O'Brien and B.J Novak.Hide Caption 2 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Buzz began for publicist turned filmmaker Justin Simien's trailer even before his movie, "Dear White People," was completed. It lived up to the early hype, winning the U.S. Dramatic Special Jury Award for Breakthrough Talent at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival.Hide Caption 3 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – When Kimberly Bryant was studying electrical engineering in college, she remembers being excited about the study, but "culturally isolated." It spurred her to start Black Girls CODE, which introduces computer coding lessons to a new generation of coders. "The girls take what they've learned in our classes and they use that to escalate their advancement in other things," Bryant said.Hide Caption 4 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Filmmaker Ryan Coogler directed "Fruitvale Station," the dramatic telling of the true story of Oscar Grant, a 22-year-old shot and killed by a BART police officer. "I never want to shy away from the truth," he said. In 2013, he won the Sundance Grand Jury Prize and Audience Award.Hide Caption 5 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Nigerian-American Uzoamaka Maduka co-founded literary magazine The American Reader, serves as editor-in-chief and was named to the Forbes 30 under 30 list. "Literature, from women of any race and men of any race, besides white, would always be pigeonholed as, 'Now I'm going to tell you my Nigerian story,' " she told The New York Times in 2013, "And it was so tiring."Hide Caption 6 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Chelsi Henry spoke at the Conservative Political Action Conference in 2013, and the Floridian was the youngest Republican delegate to the 2012 Republican National Convention. This year, she was named a "Rising Star" by the Republican National Committee. Hide Caption 7 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Atima Omara is the first African-American to lead the Young Democrats for America. In 2013, she was named an EBONY Power 100 honoree. Hide Caption 8 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Actress Condola Rashad is a two-time Tony Award nominee. She has already been a part of high-profile theatrical productions like "The Trip to Bountiful" with Cicely Tyson and "Romeo and Juliet" with Orlando Bloom, not to mention her film and television credits. Hide Caption 9 of 10We got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch 10 photosWe got next: 10 up-and-comers to watch – Comedian Sasheer Zamata made headlines when she became the first black woman in six years to join "Saturday Night Live." The 27-year-old University of Virginia grad has performed with the Upright Citizen's Brigade and as a stand-up comedian. Hide Caption 10 of 10Story highlightsDirector of satirical film "Dear White People" shares 5 things to know about black cultureAuthor: Many blacks have a desire to have an identity rooted in black cultureWe don't often see ourselves reflected in popular "Black Culture," he writes There's a scene in my satirical film "Dear White People" in which social misfit Lionel Higgins is asked to write a black culture piece by the editor of a campus newspaper staffed with mostly white people. Lionel accepts the assignment with some trepidation. Despite the benefit of being black, large Afro and all, he feels underqualified, because he has yet to find a pocket of culture he identifies with at the fictional Winchester University. Lionel's dilemma is one many black Americans share: a deep desire to have an identity rooted in black culture coupled with the knowledge that what's seen as "authentically black" in popular culture doesn't reflect our actual experience. We're left in a sort of no-man's land, because we don't often see ourselves reflected in mainstream culture, nor in popular "Black Culture." Just WatchedThe man behind 'Dear White people' replayMore Videos ...The man behind 'Dear White people' 02:19PLAY VIDEOIn making the film and engaging in debates about the state of "black film," here are five things I've come to know about black culture now:1. There is a difference between black culture and "Black Culture" Black culture, sans quotes, is the sum total of cultural contributions to the mainstream by the black subculture. It's a fluid and a multifaceted, often contradictory thing. Meanwhile "Black Culture" is a lifestyle standard made of assumptions about black identity, often used successfully by marketers, studio heads, fashion brands and music labels to make money. It can be the "cool factor" that makes kids line up for hours to spend their last dime on brand new Michael Jordan sneakers. Or the thing that makes white people call me "brotha" and blast 2 Chainz when I hop in the car. It's what people assume about black people and how they should sound, live and act. Black culture may have been born in black communities, or created by black Americans. But when appropriated for commerce, there is a danger of mistaking "Black Culture" for actual cultural EXPERIENCE. That's where the myth begins, and it can devalue real human experiences. 2. "Black Culture" oftentimes employs, but is not always defined by, actual black peopleOften by the time "Black Culture" is being used to sell a product or idea, it's already been reinterpreted by white people. This isn't necessarily malicious, but it's something to note. We are often told what being black is by people who aren't. Up and coming black hip hop artists are molded to appeal to the masses by white label executives. Television shows with black characters might have no black writers or directors. I'm reminded of a time in college when a white roommate insisted he was "blacker" than I was, by showing me he could successfully "crip walk." It was a feat I could not do, nor cared to match. But in that moment I was made to wonder if I was indeed "black" enough, despite being the only actual black person present. In that moment, I felt alienated by a culture I had a need to be rooted in. The black experience can sometimes be so concretely defined in the mainstream that it feels suffocating. The reality of being black is much more nuanced and fluid. 3. Black culture is multiculturalBlack culture draws from a variety of influences born both in and outside black communities. Janelle Monae's album "Electric Lady" demonstrates this: It is a brilliant amalgamation of artistic references as disparate as Motown and Fritz Lang's Metropolis. Being black in America involves a process of moving through and adopting from many different cultures. To define what's authentically black is virtually impossible, as there are as many ways to be black as there are black people. 4. Black culture is not proprietary to black peopleMany observers had a tough time when rapper Macklemore & Ryan Lewis won the Grammy for best rap album over Kendrick Lamar.There is similar discontent over the lack of black artists being recognized or rotated on radio in categories once "owned" by black musicians, like R&B or hip hop. But this is not new. Once communities of black artists birth something to the mass culture, in many ways it is no longer ours. For every Dizzy Gillespie there is a Dave Brubeck. It can be a tough pill to swallow. Particularly when a culture we feel ownership over reaches new heights of success in more mainstream, i.e. whiter, hands. There is something unsettling about the fact that black artists doing things associated with "Black Culture" (rapping, twerking,) doesn't seem to capture the mainstream's attention as potently as when white artists do it. (See: Miley Cyrus). Personally, I happen to enjoy both Kendrick Lamar and Macklemore -- Brubeck and Gillespie -- and even a couple of Hall & Oates jams from time to time. But I don't define my black experience in something as transient as music or fashion. I get much more infuriated when presented with an overtly defined and limited depiction of what being black represents. Like being told I "talk white" in school. Or McRibs commercials. Or, more egregiously, seeing white kids in college dress as black stereotypes and post pictures of it on Facebook on a day meant to honor a civil rights icon.5. Black culture is a starting point Culture of any kind can be grounding and comforting, creating a home for nourishment and rules for understanding ourselves. But at a certain point a cultural identity too tightly defined keeps us from growing. I'm grounded in, but not limited by, my blackness.When I began trying to get my film made, the confines of "Black Culture" seemed to suggest that if a black movie wasn't broadly comedic, a historical epic tragedy or a street story, there would be no audience for it.But I made it anyway. After millions of YouTube views for the trailer, and several sold-out screenings at Sundance, my quirky rumination on race and identity has been warmly received by audiences and critics of all races. And that is really the genesis of any culture: Ultimately, it's created by individuals and communities with the courage to do something different and unexpected.Like be themselves. Find yourself at CNN LivingHow we live, love and relateCNN Living reflects your life. From advice for modern parents to the freshest news in food: It's all here.Eatocracy: Try this unique syrupTravis and Joyce Miller started producing hickory syrup as an experiment. Demand for the unique flavor has turned into a full-time business.Relate: Summer lovin'These happy couples kept the campfire flames burning, and turned summer flings into lifetime commitments.Parents: Bad mom or criminal?Shanesha Taylor says a moment of "desperation" led her to leave her children in a car during a job interview.Style: The appeal of the one-pieceBikinis might dominate the beaches, but style editors and trend forecasters say the one-piece is the "fashion-forward" choice this season.Decor: When to wash your sheetsAre you ready for this? These guidelines tell you when to wash everything, from sheets and cars to bras and hair.Identity: Society vs. facial tattoos"I am a canvas of my experiences, my story is etched in lines and shading," says tattoo artist Kat Von D. Is this a good thing?More from livingWoman delivers Florida's largest baby everObama meets boy who inspired $1 million fundraiserNew Grammy ad #LeftSwipeDat tackles teen smoking Powered by Livefyre
How we live, love and relateCNN Living reflects your life. From advice for modern parents to the freshest news in food: It's all here.
Eatocracy: Try this unique syrupTravis and Joyce Miller started producing hickory syrup as an experiment. Demand for the unique flavor has turned into a full-time business.
Relate: Summer lovin'These happy couples kept the campfire flames burning, and turned summer flings into lifetime commitments.
Parents: Bad mom or criminal?Shanesha Taylor says a moment of "desperation" led her to leave her children in a car during a job interview.
Style: The appeal of the one-pieceBikinis might dominate the beaches, but style editors and trend forecasters say the one-piece is the "fashion-forward" choice this season.
Decor: When to wash your sheetsAre you ready for this? These guidelines tell you when to wash everything, from sheets and cars to bras and hair.
Identity: Society vs. facial tattoos"I am a canvas of my experiences, my story is etched in lines and shading," says tattoo artist Kat Von D. Is this a good thing?