Woman faces federal charges at West Point in alleged theft -- meatballs
From Kristen Kiraly, CNN
updated 11:25 AM EDT, Mon March 25, 2013
The dining hall of the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York.
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
- Housekeeper is accused of trying to steal a bag of frozen meatballs
- Estelle Casimir has pleaded not guilty
- Manager says Casimir tried to sneak the meatballs out, claiming the bag was garbage
- If convicted, she could face up to two years in jail and a $2,000 fine
New York (CNN) -- A housekeeper at the U.S. Military Academy could face up to two years in jail if convicted of trying to steal a bag of frozen meatballs.
Estelle Casimir pleaded not guilty in U.S. District Court in White Plains, New York, this month, according to her attorney.
"She is very upset," said Michael Ferraro. "We've pleaded not guilty, definitely."
Casimir has been charged with stealing from the mess hall at the famed military academy in West Point, New York, on January 30. She faces two counts of misdemeanor crimes for stealing property and possessing stolen property.
Each count carries a possible penalty of up to one year in jail and a $1,000 fine.
According to a signed affidavit, the operations manager on duty at West Point, spotted Casimir trying to hide a black bag with her hand and asked her what it was.
"Nothing, it is garbage," Casimir reportedly replied.
After some reluctance, Casimir revealed the bag of meatballs, the affidavit states.
On the mess hall's menu that night: meatballs.
"If it is garbage why didn't you throw it away near the pantry area, where they have a dumpster by the door?" the manager asked, according to the affidavit.
Casimir claimed that she found the bag in a trash container and was going downstairs to throw it in another dumpster, the affidavit states.
Pending the outcome of her case, Casimir has been suspended without pay by her employer, Watson Services, which provides food services at West Point, Ferraro said.
Attempts to contact the military police at West Point, Watson Services and Casimir were unsuccessful.
Ferraro said he'll be trying to reach an agreement with the assistant U.S. attorney. If he can't, Casimir is scheduled to be back in court on April 19.
"Obviously nobody wants to go to jail," he said.
Part of complete coverage on
updated 8:32 PM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
Wuli, an ordinary village in eastern China's Zhejiang province, has an extraordinary problem: High rates of cancer.
updated 8:07 PM EDT, Mon May 27, 2013
Can China cure America's ills? A Chinese company, partnering with Nestle, is working to secure FDA approval for drugs using traditional Chinese medicine.
updated 3:26 PM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
China's urban boom led to vast tracts of empty buildings. But one city, once called China's largest "ghost town," is seeing new signs of life.
updated 11:21 AM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
For the second time in five months, Timbuktu's treasured collection of ancient manuscripts is under threat.
updated 8:17 PM EDT, Mon May 27, 2013
The region's youth were hoping that the Arab Spring aftermath would translate into opportunity. But on the streets of Cairo, you hear despair.
updated 12:24 PM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
Iranian regime is keen to encourage the public to put the past behind them, Ali Ansari writes.
updated 12:42 PM EDT, Mon May 27, 2013
Dubai has more than 100 world records to its name, so it's little wonder that Guinness has decided to open an office in the country.
updated 6:23 AM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
A team of surgeons at UCLA performed brain surgery on a man while he played guitar, and they live tweeted the surgery.
updated 12:32 PM EDT, Mon May 27, 2013
Ahead of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Forum, CNN hosted a tweet chat on the fate of Europe's youths.
updated 6:41 AM EDT, Tue May 28, 2013
We're guessing this is going to end up on a lot of "world's most dangerous ski runs" lists, but for a different reason than any of the other entries.