Iran: Israeli operatives arrested
By the CNN Wire Staff
April 11, 2012 -- Updated 1216 GMT (2016 HKT)
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
- Nuclear talks with Iran are scheduled to resume Saturday
- Israel and Iran are believed to be engaged in a shadow war
- The Israeli Prime Minister's office had no official comment on the Iranian claims
(CNN) -- Iran said it has broken up an Israeli "terror and sabotage network" that was planning attacks within the country, making a number of arrests while confiscating weapons and equipment, state-run media reported.
"The complicated and months-long measures and moves made by the Iranian intelligence forces to identify the devils led to the discovery of the Zionists' regional command center ... and discovering the identity of the agents active in that command center," a statement from the Iranian Intelligence Ministry said, according to the Fars News Agency.
Paul Hirschson, a spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry said that every few months Iran spreads disinformation and there is no basis to the story.
The developments come ahead of the scheduled resumption of nuclear talks between Iran and six world powers in Istanbul, Turkey, on Saturday.
1-on-1 with Israel's defense minister
Can Israel use air bases near Iran?
Faced with mounting pressure from the world powers over its controversial nuclear program, Iran said last month that it was ready to re-engage with the International Atomic Energy Association, the U.N. nuclear watchdog.
As a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, Iran has the right, like other countries, to enrich uranium for commercial and research reactors. But the same facilities that are used for peaceful enrichment can be used to enrich uranium for a bomb. And that's what many Western countries suspect Iran is doing.
Iran insists its nuclear program is exclusively for peaceful purposes.
Tehran's claims of an Israeli terror network come in the midst of an apparent shadow war the two nations are believed to be fighting.
Iranian nuclear scientists have been assassinated and there have been mysterious explosions in the country.
Also Iran and the Tehran-backed Lebanese militia Hezbollah have in recent months made various claims about discovering Israeli espionage operations, which have been met by either silence or flat out denials from Israeli government officials.
Separately, there have been attempted attacks against Israeli diplomats in India and Georgia, along with suspected terror plots against Israeli targets in Thailand and Azerbaijan.
CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali and Kevin Flower contributed to this report.
Part of complete coverage on
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 1526 GMT (2326 HKT)
Advocates say the exam includes unnecessarily invasive and irrelevant procedures -- like a so-called "two finger" test.
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 0009 GMT (0809 HKT)
Supplies of food, clothing and fuel are running short in Damascus and people are going hungry as the civil war drags on.
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 1801 GMT (0201 HKT)
Supporters of Richard III want a reconstruction of his head to bring a human aspect to a leader portrayed as a murderous villain.
February 5, 2013 -- Updated 1548 GMT (2348 HKT)
Robert Fowler spent 130 days held hostage by the same al Qaeda group that was behind the Algeria massacre. He shares his experience.
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 0507 GMT (1307 HKT)
As "We are the World" plays, a video shows what looks like a nuclear attack on the U.S. Jim Clancy reports on a bizarre video from North Korea.
The relationship is, once again, cold enough to make Obama's much-trumpeted "reset" in Russian-U.S. relations seem thoroughly off the rails.
Ten years on, what do you think the Iraq war has changed in you, and in your country? Send us your thoughts and experiences.
February 5, 2013 -- Updated 1215 GMT (2015 HKT)
Musician Daniela Mercury has sold more than 12 million albums worldwide over a career span of nearly 30 years.
Photojournalist Alison Wright travelled the world to capture its many faces in her latest book, "Face to Face: Portraits of the Human Spirit."
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 0006 GMT (0806 HKT)
Europol claims 380 soccer matches, including top level ones, were fixed - as the scandal widens, CNN's Dan Rivers looks at how it's done.
February 6, 2013 -- Updated 1237 GMT (2037 HKT)
That galaxy far, far away is apparently bigger than first thought. The "Star Wars" franchise will get two spinoff movies, Disney announced.
July 25, 2014 -- Updated 2327 GMT (0727 HKT)
It's an essential part of any trip, an activity we all take part in. Yet almost none of us are any good at it. Souvenir buying is too often an obligatory slog.
Today's five most popular stories